Hey everyone, welcome back.
This section of the course is about metrics, and
this is one of the most important topics that we will
be covering in the course for a product manager.
As a product manager,
basically your entire day, your entire role actually
revolves around metrics in some way or another.
So, we will cover metrics in general, like, what are they,
why are they important, then how do you pick them,
we're going to go over some real life examples of
metrics at real tech companies, and then we're going
to talk about some metrics frameworks that will
help you pick and understand your metrics.
So pay close attention because this is a big section.
So there's a very famous saying that goes "What gets measured gets managed" and that is by Peter Drucker,
who is a very famous old school business consultant,
management consultant, that sort of thing.
And he was actually most active in the earlier parts of the 1900s. That is so true and metrics are really all about that.
So have you ever been driving down the road and
seen one of these radar automated speed limit signs,
the ones where it says the speed limit,
but then it also uses radar to show you exactly
how fast you are currently going?
These signs have been proven to reduce speed for people
even more effectively than under threat of getting
a ticket from a police officer.
The reason is because the feedback is instantaneous.
So when you get tickets from the police, you're probably
only getting one every few times that you actually speed and the police officer catches you and then decides to give you a ticket.
So, you know, depending on how much you speed,
however many times you speed and
getting a ticket in that period of time.
But with these signs, every single time you go past
a speed limit sign, you're getting direct feedback
on "Here's how fast you're going"
and this has been proven, again, to be way more effective
than just being ticketed for reducing speed.
The reason that this happens is because of a human nature
of science called feedback loops, which means
that the more frequently you are getting accurate feedback
about something, the more effectively you're
going to manage that. This same exact principle is
behind the success of the fitness tracker industry.
So, people that wear, you know, fitness tracking armbands,
or watches, or heart rate monitors, or whatever,
they're getting instantaneous feedback all the time about their calories, or the way they slept, or what they've been eating,
and this helps people lose weight or become healthier,
and this is the exact same reason, because they're
getting really quick feedback every single day,
or even every hour if they're looking at their device pretty frequently,
and this is that science at work. As a product manager,
we can use this same science to really help
our products be successful.
And this whole feedback loop process through metrics is really the core of Agile development and your role as a product manager.
So what are metrics?
Well, metrics is just a fancy term for a number that
describes what's going on with your product, it's
a measurement of something.
And sometimes you'll hear the word KPIs,
which stands for key performance indicator,
and this is, whatever, you can use these two terms
interchangeably, to be honest,
you'll hear both of them depending on
the company you're working at.
I think KPIs sounds a little bit corporate
so I just use the word metrics.
No big deal.
Some common examples of metrics are things like
monthly active users, returning users, churned users,
things like even AppStore reviews,
maybe things that people do on certain platforms
like Facebook or Twitter,
it's how many posts have they made.
These are all metrics, it's just a number saying how many times someone has done something, or even in
terms of, let's say, a Netflix or a streaming music company,
they have metrics for how fast between the
time that the user hits the play button to when the video starts.
And, in this case, that measurement they're trying to decrease to be as small as possible to have the fastest service basically.
So, metrics are different depending on the type of the
product manager you are, the industry you're working
in, the company you're working at,
and we're going to talk a little bit more about that.
As I keep saying, metrics are a huge part of your
life as a product manager and, as you know, product managers do a lot of different things that we've already covered,
but one of the most important things is that you must
accomplish a goal, and in order to basically accomplish
that goal, you have to first say what are you accomplishing.
You have to do what we call defining success
and you do that through metrics.
So you basically say "Hey, these are the numbers we're
going to try to hit in this metric by building this thing,
and if we do it, we're successful, and if we don't,
then something's wrong."
If we're getting close, then we know
we're moving in the right direction,
but this is our feedback loop as a product manager.
So back to the real world example on the fitness tracker.
If a person is trying to lose weight, then they're going to
have a goal of eating under a certain amount
of calories, or burning a certain amount of calories per day.
Exact same thing for us.
We have to say "Here's what we want to hit, and
when we get there, that means we're successful."
Again, this is called defining success and this is something
you've got to do before every single endeavor
you or your team does, or even your company does,
you have to know what are you actually trying
to do here before you start doing it.
So, here's a real world quick example from, like, let's say,
Facebook, as an example. Let's say that Facebook
is trying to increase the amount of time
that people spend on Facebook, okay?
Well, that's like a company level goal.
And now let's also say that, you know, from this we know
we want to build a feature that's going to basically
encourage people to stay longer.
But if, let's say, we are a product manager on a smaller team and we know that people who comment more
on Facebook, where they make comments on,
you know, post and stuff,
they tend to stay longer than the average person.
So they've looked in the data and we know that.
What we want to do in that case is look at building a
product that, or building a feature rather, or improving
that product to basically encourage people to
comment more, and we would say "Ok, we're going
to go for a 5% increase in comments per person on
average," which will in turn affect the average amount
of time that everyone is spending on Facebook in
general on that top company level metric.
So, next, we're going to take a look at some real life examples
of metrics at some companies you may have
heard of before. I'll see you in the next lecture.